[Music]
welcome back to state of the union i'm
jake tapper
more than half of all states have
started reopening non-essential
businesses but maryland's stay at home
order is still
in effect and the number of new
confirmed coronavirus cases there is
still
on the rise joining me now is republican
governor larry hogan of maryland he's
also the chair
of the national governors association uh
governor hogan good to see you as always
um i want to start by asking you to
respond to something that we just heard
from white house economic advisor larry
kudlow who said that they're taking a
pause right now
they're not really sure what they're
going to do if anything in terms of
further economic help to citizens
or to states or cities what do you make
of that
i'm not really quite sure uh what to
make of that jake i just did uh listen
in and hear that this morning
um but uh the message seems to sort of
change
almost on a daily sometimes several
times a day
uh yeah i i think we're making progress
and look i believe
that uh i think the the first three
three and a half
stimulus packages have been helpful and
uh everybody's trying their best to get
all of that money out to the people that
really need the help both the
individuals who've lost their jobs and
to the small businesses that are
that are hurting under this uh this
terrible economy
and the shutdown that everybody's had to
do for the virus
but i think we are going to need more
help uh and i think we are going to
uh be able to get something done in a
for stimulus package both
uh money out to the states where we i
think we're in the best position to be
able to
provide those services and help those
people that really need it and i'm
hopeful that we'll be i mean
the president vice president and
secretary mnuchin have already committed
to it multiple times and
and now you know the message seems to be
changing i'm just hoping
um i'm hoping we can put aside all this
kind of divisiveness and partisanship
because
we just have to get this done for the
american people and it seems like
you know we have uh people jumping in
and saying well we'll do it
if we get this the other side says well
we'll do it if we get that
i think we just ought to focus on this
crisis on this economy on trying to get
people back to work and not not cloud it
with multiple other outside issues
either from the
democrats in the house or from the white
house or for the republicans in the
senate
let's just focus on helping the people
and coming together in a bipartisan way
you heard larry kudlow say this morning
uh he he reflected what president trump
has been saying about
states that have sanctuary cities uh and
i believe baltimore is a sanctuary city
uh that they might have to change those
laws in order to get
funding um what do you make of that
well first of all baltimore's not uh
sanctuary city and maryland's not a
sanctuary state but i apologize
that's exactly what i'm talking about
yeah so that's exactly what i'm talking
about though jake
uh so the uh there there are people the
democrats are saying
we'll do it if we get this additional
funding for these other things
uh the republicans in the senate are
saying we'll we'll do it if we get these
other liability issues for businesses
now the white house is talking about
sanctuary cities and i think everybody
ought to stop talking about all of those
things
and just focus on getting people the
help that they need without bringing all
these other
uh you know outside political issues
into the debate it's not it's no time
for divisive politics it's time to get
something done
so let's start with testing um you said
that 500 000 coronavirus tests you've
recently
acquired from south korea are being
guarded in an undisclosed location
by the national guard and by maryland
state police in order to prevent
prevent the federal government or anyone
else from seizing them
is that really necessary
i'm not sure it's necessary at this
point the question really came up about
a week or so ago
when i was asked about the flying the
test kits in from south korea and we
were very
careful about that because there have
been several reports of
of shipments being intercepted or
diverted by the federal government from
a couple of my colleague
governors from around the country we
wanted to make sure that that didn't
happen which is why we had the national
guard and state police why we flew a
korean passenger plane into baltimore
washington international instead of
dulles where they normally land and
we're just we're guarding them
look we're working together with the
federal government right now an outbreak
in salisbury on our eastern shore
of poultry workers that are infected
fema is doing a great job there
helping us and we have those korean
tests with our national guard
with our federal partners and our
neighbors in delaware and virginia we're
all working together so
we're it's not a concern any longer but
it honestly it was an issue that we were
looking at as we flew them in
yesterday a group called reopen maryland
trekked more than 150 miles from
frederick to salisbury
to stage protest rallies on both sides
of your state maryland republican
congressman andy harris
spoke at one of the rallies he had some
interesting words take a listen
i didn't wake up in communist china
and i didn't wake up in north korea this
morning
and tomorrow morning i should be able to
go to the church of my choice and
worship
the way i choose
that's your fellow maryland republican
comparing the way you're running your
state
to communist china and north korea
what's your response sir
well first of all look i think everybody
has a right to protest and express their
feelings a couple of dozen people did so
yesterday and they have every right to
do that we
sadly we had far more people die
yesterday in maryland than we had
protesters
congressman harris i'm not sure where he
woke up yesterday morning but
maybe he confused north korea and south
korea
south korea is doing a great job on
testing and we just saved
the lives of thousands of marylanders by
getting those half million tests from
korea
but i really don't have any further
comment i mean he's obviously
got the right to say whatever crazy
things he wants to say but
you know i don't i don't really need to
respond to him
yesterday was a gorgeous spring day on
the east coast we saw people in new york
city in washington dc
crowding into parks in washington they
went to the
national mall filling it um in in this
photo
uh that i'm putting up now there does
not appear to be
much social or physical distancing going
on in the national mall of course not
that far
from the state line what's your reaction
when you see images like these
well it's one of the things that we've
been concerned about and we're look
we're
very anxious to get our state reopened
in a safe way as soon as we possibly can
because
uh people are getting frustrated and
they've been inside of their homes and
especially we want to get them outside
and
enjoying some fresh air after being
cooped up people are
are ready to do that uh and and and we
want them to be able to do it but in a
safe way with
with social distancing the district of
columbia has a stay-at-home order in
place
has a limit uh limits of no crowds
larger than 10 or more
it appears as if thousands of people are
jammed into the national mall
in direct violation of that law in
washington d.c
and it's it's one of the things we're
concerned about you see this happening
around the country as
as you p states try to open in a safe
way
unfortunately the pressure is to do it
in a not safe way and and
and that's something we're very
concerned about and one of the reasons
why we're being cautious
and trying to do things in a slow uh
safe and effective manner
larry hogan of the great state of
maryland thank you so much for your time
sir we really appreciate it as always
thank you jake